# CPP-Text-Based-Game
This is a text based game based on the movie Alice in Wonderland, this is a small custom game that I built originally for a school project.

Concept: My initial conceptualization of this game is like the movie. The player will play through the game as Alice. The players journey will begin quite linear, as there is only one exit in the first room in the rabbit hole, and a linear brick road to meet the first set of characters afterwards, if the player tries to move right (east), left (west), in these instances I will just display a simple message of what Alice can see that way. Eventually these will become more complex with more options along the way. Alice will eventually be reaching the final boss, the red queen I believe. Where some sort of fight will occur, and the player can either lose or win depending on the items they have. Also, I will make the initial room in this game contain a chest, acting as the “safe house” chest. The introduction message will display a clear goal to the player. There will be items to pick up and use, characters to interact with, and of course, a Jabberwocky to slay.
Plan: I plan to start building this game by building a small-scale version of the end goal. It will require foundational components already. I will make only two rooms, one character to talk to, and one item to interact with. This will require me to make foundational components like moving the player, making a player, making a character, talking to a character, an inventory system to store the item, and interacting with an item. After this stage has been complete, I will begin to finalize the items, characters, locations that I want in the game. This will make it clear the components of my program I need to edit/adapt to handle this, as well as components that are missing and need to be built up. I will slowly edit and create more functionality as I start adding things to the game. I will need an automated way to take in text file data and do something useful with it like creating an item or a character. At this point I will begin finalizing components, and tying things together, I can already see a use for inheritance of a general class which has basic descriptor instance variables and member functions.
Play: This game will play pretty similarly to the movie, in the sense of its story direction. I do however want to make it so there is plenty of fun items to pickup. I also want some of the items to do something for the story of the game. That’s why the player will need to consume the Shrink Drink in order to fit through the first door of the game, or why later in the game the player must be large in order to progress towards the three last castles. I want the characters to give out hints of what the player could do if desired, and also hints on the location of certain items. The player should be able to play the game at their own pace, there is plenty to do when it comes to searching for items, talking to players, and even an easter egg hidden in the game. The game will come to an end once the Jabberwocky is slain, which will be quite a task to complete. The player must collect all four pieces of Vorpal armor including the sword, as well as a specific key, and a food item to grow large. This will make sure the player utilizes all components of the game that were built for them.
Goal: My goal for this game is to really push myself to build an intricate and hopefully somewhat intermediate program. I want to be comfortable using data from files and then doing something meaningful with them. I want to be able to edit the game simply from a text file, and change components of the game after doing so. I hope to flush out everything desired from me as a programmer and do even more than is required. I hope I can make something I am proud of, and something that the creators of this course would feel proud someone who utilized the information they provided to create the game I present. 
Classes:
GeneralTraits: This class is simply here to save on repetition, since many other classes will need things like names, and descriptions, this class will have those instance variables as well as the proper accessor function to be inherited by other classes.
Room: This class represents a room/location in the game. It will have a name, description, size/key requirements, be locked or unlocked, and finally will have the nwse coordinate, that will be used in conjunction with a vector to create a map chaining the rooms together via coordinates. All the data for each room will be read from a text file, which will include a useful piece of information separated by newline arguments.
Items: This class represents an item to be interacted with inside of the game. It will have a name, description, will be edible/drinkable or not, and will have a room where the item can be found. Like the previous class, all the date will be read in form a file and an item object will be formed depending on the amount of data in the file.
Inventory: This class represents an inventory in the game, primarily for the players inventory. It would simply contain an instance variable as a vector of items, which will have various functions to add items to the inventory, remove items from the inventory, and retrieve items in the inventory to either unlock a door, or consume, maybe even to kill a Jabberwocky. (vector of items was initialized in the Player class instead, as this was a simpler method, however I had previously build the inventory class before hand, and after building my program around this vector, I decided to stick with the more direct approach, instead of utilizing my inventory class.)
Player: This class represents the character the user/player will control, in this case it’s Alice. The player object however would need lot’s of functionality, including an inventory system (vector used here), a name, description, the starting point in the game, also would need a tracker to track the players location, a map to help keep track of the players location within the game, finally we would need to know the players current size.
Character: The character class is almost identical to the player class, except it needs to have an interact function, a dialog instance variable, and the character will not be allowed to shrink and grow like the player, however it may have been cool to have the characters move around the game.
Action: This class is pretty simple. Each action object has a instance variable that’s a vector of strings, that will be filled up with allowable word/actions to be used within the game. These will be read in from a file passed through their constructor argument, there will be simple functions to test whether an command is actually in the vector of allowable commands. 
Control: This class is my most complex class, and probably my favourite class. It will simply take in all the games major components, such as the map of all the rooms, the cast of all the characters, the list of all the items, as well as the player of the game. Finally this class will utilize a function that will continue to accept new data from the users input and then utilize it’s member functions to actually move the parts in the game to fit the users commands. It will test what the user entered, to make sure it’s a valid command, if it is, it will move along its chain of functionality until it does what it was asked of it. This control class will have the functions to move the character, allow the player to pick items up and use them, interact with other characters, and finally kill the Jabberwocky!
Wonderland: This class simply to keep the main function nice and clean. After creating a general wonderland object, it will have one function. This function once ran will begin the actual game, it will start by creating all the characters, items, rooms, the player, and store them appropriately in vectors. It will place everything where it is supposed to be, most of these objects are created with data from a text file, then we create out action statement Action object and the object of a statement Action object which will all be passed into my control object. Finally, the game will run until the user states “QUIT GAME” or they kill the Jabberwocky.
Text Files: 
action.txt: This text file includes all of the allowable action words the user can enter for the game to do something with.
object.txt: This text file includes all of the allowable objects of an action word the user can enter for the game to do something with, this could be a direction, item, location, character, etc.
location.txt: This text file includes all of the locations in the game, and their respective defining datapoints, such as if the room is locked, what key it would need to unlock it, what size the player would need to be to leave through it. Also how this room connects to the other rooms withing the game. 
intro.txt: This text file simply will be output at the beginning of the game, giving some background to the game story, general guidelines on how the controls of the game works, and finally the main goal of the games protagonist to complete.
characters.txt: This text file contains all the data for each character that will be in the game, except their dialog line, I decided to add that manually so there could be more than one line if someone wanted that. This data such as where they will spawn, their name, description, and this is all pulled from the file into the program and the rest will be taken care of.
items.txt: This text file contains all the data for each item in the game. It will include their name, description, spawn point, whether it’s edible, and whether it’s drinkable. Finally all this information is read into the program, where all the games items are created and placed into the game.

General Game Functions:
Pickup shrink-drink
Unlock rabbit-hole-room
Slay jabberwocky
